Study Guide: red seal certification

Section: Training Programs for Underrepresented Groups
Content: Training Programs for Underrepresented Groups SkilledTradesBC partners with several service providers, training providers, and Indigenous organizations across B.C. to deliver skills development and employment programs focused on meeting the needs of underrepresented groups in the skilled trades, including women, Indigenous peoples, and other equity-deserving groups through funds from the Government of Canada and British Columbia. The programs provide various individualized and group services and supports, hands-on trades exploration training, entry-level (pre-apprenticeship) trades technical training, industry recognized certification training, mentorship, job coaching and employment placement services. Check out the list below and visit their websites to learn more about the programs. BC Federation of Labour - BC Centre for Women in the Trades (BCCWITT) Region: Province Wide Email: info@bccwitt.ca Phone: 604-812-1966 BCCWITT's Skills Training services form a pivotal component of facilitating entry into the construction and skilled trades industry in British Columbia by actively recruiting women (including transwomen) and non-binary individuals. Skills Training services are strategically designed to prepare participants for a range of trades occupations within the construction and skilled trades industry. This includes, but is not limited to, positions in construction craftwork, labourers, carpentry (UBCJA), sheet metal (Local 280), welding, electrical work (IBEW 213), heat and frost (Insulators 118), HVAC, plumbing /steam fitting (UA 170), and other sectors within the trades industry. Services will be delivered hybrid cohort-based and one-on-one model. Participants are guided toward additional training, certifications, and apprenticeship programs, ensuring a continuous pathway for skill enhancement and career progression. BC Construction Association - Skilled Trades Employment Program (STEP) Region: Cariboo, Mainland/Southwest, North Coast and Nechako, Northeast, Thompson/Okanagan, and Vancouver Island/Coast Email: https://stepbc.ca/contact/ Phone: 1-833-567-STEP The Skilled Trades Employment Program (STEP) works with construction industry employers and eligible participants to fill available apprenticeship positions across B.C. STEP supports program participants to secure construction related employment by providing job search coaching and support, short-term certificates and soft skills training, job placements, and personal supports to ensure participants are job ready. Progressive Intercultural Community Services (PICS) Society Region: Mainland/Southwest Email: Trade.Starters@pics.bc.ca Phone: 604-324-7733 The Trade Starters program provides trade sampler pre-apprenticeship training to equity deserving groups for exposure to trades programs that require or may require Skilled Trades Certification in order to work in the field. A hybrid service delivery method will be utilized to accommodate individual needs and facilitate best program outcomes. Project will also employ a blended approach, combining cohort-based programming and individual case management Participants will be trained through one of the three streams of trade samplers: Stream 1: Construction Electrician, Industrial Electrician, Powerline Technician Stream 2: Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic, Gasfitter A&B, Steamfitter / Pipefitter, Sheet Metal Worker Stream 3: Heavy Duty Equipment Technician, Automotive Service Technician, and Autobody and Collison Technician. Western Joint Electrical Training Society (WJETS) Region: Cariboo, Kootenay, North Coast and Nechako, Northeast, Thompson/Okanagan, and Vancouver Island/Coast Email: brittny@wjets.ca , emilie@wjets.ca Phone: 250-508-3080, 250-508-6441 The WATT program gives participants a quick in demand skillset in the Construction and Industrial Electrician Trades. The program relies upon the established partnership with the IBEW union. Eligibility is done through an exploratory practical/hands on training called Gateway. Participants are assessed for job-site readiness, and if successful, are invited to participate in WATT. WATT is a unique approach to pre-apprenticeship/pre-employment training. Participants are supported throughout their exploration of the trade, into a career and all the way to Red Seal Certification. Coast Mountain College Region: North Coast and Nechako Contact: Deb Stava (Prince Rupert) - dete@gitxaalnation.com , 250- 624-2422 Sue-Ann Norton (Terrace) - snorton@coastmountaincollege.ca , 250-638-5408 The Cook’s Helper program provides 12 weeks of skills and knowledge training that is required to fill entry-level culinary and food services jobs. The Program is also designed to support Indigenous Peoples wishing to start their careers as Professional Cooks. This program prepares students to enter the Professional Cook Level 1 program and/or Coast Mountain College’s West Coast Culinary Diploma program which includes field school electives in Indigenous and non-Indigenous harvesting and processing techniques of locally sourced and Indigenous foods, traditional recipes and non-traditional recipes. Kekinow Indigenous Programs & Services Society Region: Mainland/Southwest Email: ste@kekinow.ca Phone: 604-591-5299 The Electrical Foundation Harmonized Program will provide Indigenous people with high quality, industry recognized education, wrap around employment skills coaching, job development and employment in Construction Electrician occupations. Kekinow will develop individualized Training Plans for each participant, utilizing a holistic and empowering approach to support their movement along the Labour Market Participation Continuum. Kitselas Five Tier System LP Region: North Coast and Nechako - Terrace and Kitselas First Nation Email: info@k5t.ca Phone: 250-615-6232 The K5T Community-Led Apprenticeship Development Program supports Indigenous peoples who wish to pursue skilled trades careers with the opportunity to learn and develop skills that could lead to an apprenticeship. The program consists of an introduction to Kitselas First Nation, Indigenous cultural competency, how the apprenticeship system works, and current labour market information. Participants complete in-house experiential Trades Sampler Programs to determine their interest in high demand trades in their area. The program also offers pre-employment coaching, job application preparation, safety training, and personal supports. Prince George Nechako Aboriginal Employment & Training Association (PGNAETA) Region: Cariboo and North Coast and Nechako Email: reception@pgnaeta.bc.ca Phone: 250-561-1199 The Trades Access Program offers a unique approach to increasing the number of eligible indigenous individuals into a Trades Pathway through supporting skills training and academic requirements to complete an apprenticeship. The Program will include 16 – 20 weeks of pre-apprenticeship training, preparing indigenous participants for success in a Foundation level Trades program of their choosing. The Trades Link Program provides a customized work plan for each Participant hosts a database which serves as a link for potential employers. The Program will serve eligible Indigenous Peoples in the Cariboo and North Coast and Nechako Regions and will include short duration trainings and certificates as required by each sector, such as competency-based learning and skills for success training and culturally based transferable skills training. Each pre-apprentice / 1st year tradesperson(s) will have a customized work plan tailored to their needs. Squamish Nation Region: Mainland/Southwest Email: Trades_Centre@squamish.net Phone: 604-980-7946 This program aims to train Indigenous Peoples looking to start a career as Heavy Equipment Operators. During the 12 weeks of skills training (4 weeks foundational skills training and 8 weeks practical skills training), students will learn about the skills needed to operate and maintain heavy machinery used for all manner of heavy construction. They will earn a Heavy Equipment Operator Level 1 Certificate and be prepared for entry level work as a Heavy Equipment Operator. The Program will also incorporate Indigenous Cultural Components specifically tailored to the participants' learning needs and culturally informed learning opportunities. STO:LO Service Agency Region: Mainland/Southwest Email: info@saset.ca Phone: 604-858-3691 The Culinary Arts Pre-Trades Program offers a 13-week training designed to provide eligible Indigenous Participants with an introspective look into the Culinary Arts trade. This program explores the fundamentals of culinary arts theory with solid application for skills and techniques training. Participants will be introduced to traditional cooking techniques which are culturally significant and contribute to food preservation. Emphasis will be made on the importance of supporting Indigenous food producers and businesses by sourcing ingredients locally and sustainably. The program includes employment readiness training and a 3-week practicum placement. Tea Creek Training Region: North Coast and Nechako and Northeast Email: training@teacreek.ca Phone: 1-(833)-784-3737 This project will provide land-based, culturally safe, Indigenous led introductory skills training for Indigenous participants, equipping them with the skills to enter employment and apprenticeship. Training will be offered through a mix of short- and longer-term training modules that each participant can select depending on their assessment and needs. Thompson Rivers University - Trades Sampler Program Region: Cariboo, Thompson/Okanagan Email: Hhamilton@tru.ca Phone: 250-371-5658 The Trades Sampler programs aim to support Indigenous Peoples interested in trying out different trades. This will include up to six different in-demand construction and three mechanical trades. The sampler programs will provide experiential learning, significant hands-on experiences, and an introduction to theory and math related to the specific trade. Program participants will also receive workplace certifications identified by our industry partners and communities. SkilledTradesBC respectfully acknowledges that our head office is located on the traditional unceded territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) people. As a provincial crown corporation, we are grateful to have the opportunity to operate across a diverse province of 203 communities and 35 nations. SkilledTradesBC is committed to supporting and working with Indigenous peoples to establish a clear and sustainable path to lasting reconciliation. Learn more about our commitment to Truth and Reconciliation . Copyright © 2024 SkilledTradesBC
Source: https://skilledtradesbc.ca/training-programs-underrepresented-groups

Section: Truth and Reconciliation
Content: Truth and Reconciliation What does Truth and Reconciliation mean to SkilledTradesBC? “True and meaningful reconciliation is an important foundational principle to our trades training system. It all starts with acknowledging our shared responsibility and listening to one another. SkilledTradesBC is committed to supporting and working with Indigenous peoples to establish a clear and sustainable path to lasting reconciliation. This includes promoting a trades training system that is welcoming and inclusive of all people, including Indigenous peoples.” - Shelley Gray, CEO "As the Director of Truth and Reconciliation at SkilledTradesBC, I see my role as part of a bigger team, working in unison with all Nations, 203 communities and the charted communities of the Metis peoples to achieve trades training in the Indigenous world. I was groomed by our Hereditary Chiefs of the Wet’suwet’en to undertake such a role. I was raised traditionally, and by parents who believed in education, whether it be a traditional education or a Western education, and I was fortunate to have both. I have my feet firmly planted in two worlds, with the teachings of “standing on your own two feet” “paddle your own canoe” and “never depend on anyone” as words of strength from our forefathers. - Skit'den, Andrew George, Director of Truth and Reconciliation Tea Creek Farm Principles of Truth and Reconciliation SkilledTradesBC continues to uphold the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act and the Calls to Action of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission into the trades training mandate. How is SkilledTradesBC committed to taking part in reconciliation? We engage with Indigenous communities, both urban and rural, and listen to their ideas of how skilled trades can help. Our focus is on relationship-building and leading collaborative efforts to: Increase the number of Indigenous peoples entering into apprenticeships Increase the proportionality of Indigenous peoples in apprenticeships Increase Certificates of Qualification or Red Seal Certifications issued to Indigenous peoples We develop Memorandums of Understanding with Indigenous communities to help create employer sponsors, building a pathway for apprentices. We also focus on community-based training programs as these provide an opportunity to build a foundation for sustainable trades training and apprenticeship pathways— creating mentors and skilled tradespeople to guide future generations. In 2008, we established an Indigenous Advisory Council, which meets twice a year, to provide input and recommendations to ensure Indigenous apprentices are fully supported, including addressing racial, cultural and other barriers to success. In 2022, SkilledTradesBC appointed Andrew George as Director, Truth and Reconciliation to lead our efforts in supporting greater Indigenous participation and success in the skilled trades. His leadership will provide an Indigenous lens everything we develop and create, including systems and policies. In addition, Andrew leads relationship building and cultivation with our Indigenous partners and the communities we serve. SkilledTradesBC will also continue the implementation of its Provincial Indigenous Skills Training Plan, which focusses on creating a clear and sustainable path and opportunities for Indigenous peoples and their communities within B.C.’s trades training and apprenticeship system. Commemorative Days Truth and Reconciliation Day (Orange Shirt Day) – September 30 Orange Shirt Day is a grassroots campaign founded by Phyllis Webstad. It grew out of her experiences and those of other residential school survivors who attended St. Joseph’s Mission near Williams Lake. It's a day to honour healing journeys and a time to engage in meaningful discussions about the history and legacy of the residential school system. National Indigenous Peoples Day – June 21 National Indigenous Peoples Day is a day for all Canadians to recognize and celebrate the unique heritage, diverse cultures and outstanding contributions of Indigenous peoples. For generations, many Indigenous peoples have chosen June 21 or near this day to celebrate their culture and heritage due its significance as the summer solstice. Louis Riel Day – November 16 Louis Riel Day is held every year on November 16 as it’s the anniversary of Riel’s execution in 1885, after he led Métis people in a resistance against the Government of Canada and its encroachment on Métis rights and their way of life. Louis Riel Day celebrates Métis culture and the continuing progress that Métis people are making. Red Dress Day – May 5 Red Dress Day aims to raise awareness of missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls and 2Spirit people. The red dresses worn on this day are a symbol, first introduced through Métis artist Jamie Black’s REDress Project, that represents the pain and loss felt by loved ones and survivors. SkilledTradesBC respectfully acknowledges that our head office is located on the traditional unceded territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) people. As a provincial crown corporation, we are grateful to have the opportunity to operate across a diverse province of 203 communities and 35 nations. SkilledTradesBC is committed to supporting and working with Indigenous peoples to establish a clear and sustainable path to lasting reconciliation. Learn more about our commitment to Truth and Reconciliation . Copyright © 2024 SkilledTradesBC
Source: https://skilledtradesbc.ca/truth-and-reconciliation

